---
id: concepts
title: Concepts
---

This page serves as a glossary and an overview of concepts used in esy with
links to detailed guide.

List of all concepts:

<AUTOGENERATED_TABLE_OF_CONTENTS>

### `sandbox`

Sandbox is an isolated development environment for a project in development (a
[root package](#root-packages)) managed by esy:

* Libraies and preprocessors used by a project in development.
* Development tools (like Merlin).
* Plugins for IDEs and text editors.

All these are represented by packages which are declared as
[dependencies](#dependency) in esy.

### `package`

**NOTE npm users:** this is the same concept as npm packages.

Package is a unit of code distribution, a directory with a `package.json` (or
`esy.json`) *package manifest*.

A package can be installed from npm registry, github repository or any tarball
(locally or over the network).

Any npm package is also an esy package but esy packges can have esy-specific
metadata in their package manifests:

* [Commands to build the package](#package-build-commands)
* [Commands to install the package](#package-install-commands)
* [Exported environment declaration](#package-exported-environment)

### `root package`

The [package](#package) at the root of the [sandbox](#sandbox).

### `linked package`

A [package](#package) which is declared as a [dependency](#dependency) of the
sandbox by using `link:/path/to/sources` declaration in a `package.json` file:

```
{
  ...
  "dependencies": {
    "my-lib": "link:../my-lib"
  }
}
```

This mechanism is used to develop multiple packages inside a single sandbox:
instead of copying sources to `node_modules/` directory of the sandbox, `esy
install` command will create a link which reference the actual source of the
linked package. Thus modifications made to linked package's sources will be
immeditaly visible to sandboxes this package is linked to.

### `dependency`

Dependencies are declared in package manifests (`package.json`) and then being
installed into `node_modules` directory.

There are several types of dependencies esy can understand:

* [regular dependencies](#regular-dependency)
* [development time dependencies](#development-time-dependency)
* [build time dependencies](#build-time-dependency)
* [peer dependencies](#peer-dependency)

### `regular dependency`

**NOTE npm users:** this is the same concept as npm dependencies.

Regular dependency is a dependency which is used during the run time of your
application.

They are declared in `"dependencies"` section of a `package.json`.

### `development time dependency`

**NOTE npm users:** this is the same concept as npm devDependencies.

Development time dependency is used only during development.

They are declared in `"devDependencies"` section of a `package.json`.

Examples: `@opam/merlin`, `@opam/ocp-indent`.

### `build time dependency`

**WARNING: this is not implemented yet, for now use regular dependencies to
manage yor build time dependencies.**

Build time dependency is a dependency which is only needed during the build of
process of a package.

Examples: `@opam/jbuilder`, `@opam/ocamlbuild` and other build systems.

### `peer dependency`

**NOTE npm users:** this is the same concept as npm peerDependencies.

They are declared in `"peerDependencies"` section of a `package.json`.

In esy it is common to use `ocaml` as a peer dependency.

### `environment`

A set of environment variables managed by esy.

It consist of environment provided by esy and by each package in a sandbox.

There are several types of environment managed by esy:

- [build environment](#build-environment)
- [command environment](#command-environment)
- [test environment](#test-environment)

See [Environment](environment.md) guide for details.

### `build environment`

An environment which is used to build a [package](#package).

See [Build Environment](environment.md#build-environment) guide for details.

### `command environment`

An environment which includes [development time
dependencies](#development-time-dependency).

Most often it is used to run IDE/text editors and other development tools.

See [Command Environment](environment.md#command-environment) guide for details.

### `test environment`

An environment which includes the [root package](#root-package)'s own paths.

This environment is useful when you need to test root package's executable as if
they are installed.

See [Test Environment](environment.md#test-environment) guide for details.

### `package build commands`

Commands which are needed to build the package.

Those are configured via `"esy.build"` key in `package.json`.

See [Configuration](configuration.md#esybuild) guide for details.

### `package install commands`

Commands which are needed to install the package' artifacts.

Those are configured via `"esy.install"` key in `package.json`.

See [Configuration](configuration.md#esyinstall) guide for details.

### `package exported environment`

Environment which package contributes to an esy-managed
[environment](#environment).

It is configured via `"esy.exportedEnv"` key in `package.json`.

See [Configuration](configuration.md#exported-environment) guide for details.

### `build store`

A location esy uses to cache built artifacts.

There are two types of stores:

* [global build store](#global-build-store) which is used to place builds for
  packages which don't change (installed from released distributions)

* [local build store](#local-build-store) which is used to place builds for
  packages which are being developed (their sources are being changed) as a part
  of the sandbox. [Root package](#root-package) and [linked
  packages](#linked-package) are being placed there.

### `release`

An npm package which is used for end-user distribution of software built with
esy.

There are three types of releases exist:

* dev-releases contain only dependency declarations and an ejected build system.
* pack-releases also contain all sources for dependencies downloaded and
  *packed* inside.
* bin-releases contain prebuilt artifacts so they don't require building on the
  client system.

Releases can be produced with `esy release` command. See [Releases](release.md)
guide for details.

### `ocamlfind`

An utility which allows to discover OCaml [libraries](#ocamlfind-library)
installed on the system.

Most of OCaml build systems (jbuilder, ocamlbuild and others) allow to use
ocamlfind-installed OCaml libraries when building applications.

### `ocamlfind library`

A set of OCaml built artifacts installed with [ocamlfind](#ocamlfind).

You can query a list of installed libraries inside an esy sandbox with the
following command:

```
% esy ocamlfind list
```
